TROUBLE BREWING – REFERENCE SHEET

TOWNSFOLK
Washerwoman – You start knowing that 1 of 2 players is a particular Townsfolk.  
Librarian – You start knowing that 1 of 2 players is a particular Outsider. (Or that zero are in play.)  
Investigator – You start knowing that 1 of 2 players is a particular Minion.  
Chef – You start knowing how many pairs of evil players there are.  
Empath – Each night, you learn how many of your 2 alive neighbours are evil.  
Fortune Teller – Each night, choose 2 players: you learn if either is a Demon. There is a good player that registers as a Demon to you.  
Undertaker – Each night*, you learn which character died by execution today.  
Monk – Each night*, choose a player (not yourself): they are safe from the Demon tonight.  
Ravenkeeper – If you die at night, you are woken to choose a player: you learn their character.  
Virgin – The 1st time you are nominated, if the nominator is a Townsfolk, they are executed immediately.  
Slayer – Once per game, during the day, publicly choose a player: if they are the Demon, they die.  
Soldier – You are safe from the Demon.  
Mayor – If only 3 players live & no execution occurs, your team wins. If you die at night, another player might die instead.  

OUTSIDERS
Butler – Each night, choose a player (not yourself): tomorrow, you may only vote if they are voting too.  
Drunk – You do not know you are the Drunk. You think you are a Townsfolk character, but you are not.  
Recluse – You might register as evil & as a Minion or Demon, even if dead.  
Saint – If you die by execution, your team loses.  

MINIONS
Poisoner – Each night, choose a player: they are poisoned tonight and tomorrow day.  
Spy – Each night, you see the Grimoire. You might register as good & as a Townsfolk or Outsider, even if dead.  
Scarlet Woman – If there are 5 or more players alive (Travellers don’t count) & the Demon dies, you become the Demon.  
Baron – There are extra Outsiders in play. [+2 Outsiders]  

DEMONS
Imp – Each night*, choose a player: they die. If you kill yourself this way, a Minion becomes the Imp.  
*Ability does not activate on the first night.  

FLAVOUR TEXT
Clouds roll in over Ravenswood Bluff, engulfing this sleepy town and its superstitious inhabitants in foreboding shadow Clouds roll in over Ravenswood Bluff, engulfing this sleepy town and its superstitious inhabitants in foreboding shadow. Freshly washed clothes dance eerily on lines strung between cottages. Chimneys cough plumes of smoke into the air. Exotic scents waft through cracks in windows and under doors, as hidden cauldrons lay bubbling. An unusually warm autumn breeze wraps around vine-covered walls and whispers ominously to those brave enough to walk the cobbled streets.
Anxious mothers call their children home from play as thunder begins to clap on the horizon. If you listen more closely, however, noises stranger still can be heard echoing from the neighbouring forest. Under the
watchful eye of a looming monastery, silhouetted figures skip from doorway to doorway. Those who can read the signs know there is... Trouble Brewing

FIRST NIGHT
• Confirm all players have eyes closed.  
• Wait approximately 10 seconds.  
• Each Traveller with a first-night ability acts.  

Minion info (7+ players)  
• If more than one Minion, they all make eye contact.  
• Show the “This is the Demon” card and point to the Demon.  

Demon info (7+ players)  
• Show the “These are your minions” card and point to each Minion.  
• Show the “These characters are not in play” card and reveal three good character tokens not in play.  

Night-order abilities (first night)  
Poisoner – Point to a player: they are poisoned.  
Spy – Grimoire is shown to the Spy.  
Washerwoman – Show the Townsfolk token; point to two players.  
Librarian – If Outsiders in play, show their token; point to two players. Otherwise show “zero.”  
Investigator – Show the Minion token; point to two players.  
Chef – Show the number of neighbouring evil pairs.  
Empath – Show the number (0–2) of evil neighbours.  
Fortune Teller – Points to two players; show yes/no if either is Demon or “decoy.”  
Butler – Point to a player; mark as “Master.”  

Dawn – Wait ~10 seconds, then call for eyes open and announce any deaths.  

OTHER NIGHTS
Dusk  
• Confirm eyes closed; wait ~10 seconds.  
• Each Traveller with a night ability acts.  

Night-order abilities (other nights)  
Poisoner – Previous poisoned player recovers; choose a new poisoned player.  
Monk – Previous protected player loses protection; choose a new protected player.  
Spy – Grimoire is shown to the Spy.  
Scarlet Woman – If she just became the Demon, show “You are” card with Demon token.  
Imp – Choose a player to die. If the Imp chose themself, a Minion becomes the new Imp and is shown the “You are” card.  
Ravenkeeper – If killed tonight, chooses a player and learns their character.  
Undertaker – If someone was executed today, learn their character.  
Empath – Learn the number (0–2) of evil neighbours.  
Fortune Teller – Points to two players; learn yes/no as above.  
Butler – Point to a player; mark as “Master.”  

Dawn – Wait ~10 seconds, then call for eyes open and announce any deaths.  