TROUBLE BREWING – REFERENCE SHEET

TOWNSFOLK
Washerwoman – You start knowing that 1 of 2 players is a particular Townsfolk.  
Librarian – You start knowing that 1 of 2 players is a particular Outsider. (Or that zero are in play.)  
Investigator – You start knowing that 1 of 2 players is a particular Minion.  
Chef – You start knowing how many pairs of evil players there are.  
Empath – Each night, you learn how many of your 2 alive neighbours are evil.  
Fortune Teller – Each night, choose 2 players: you learn if either is a Demon. There is a good player that registers as a Demon to you.  
Undertaker – Each night (except the first), you learn which character died by execution today.  
Monk – Each night (except the first), choose a player (not yourself): they are safe from the Demon tonight.  
Ravenkeeper – If you die at night, you are woken to choose a player: you learn their character.  
Virgin – The 1st time you are nominated, if the nominator is a Townsfolk, they are executed immediately.  
Slayer – Once per game, during the day, publicly choose a player: if they are the Demon, they die.  
Soldier – You are safe from the Demon.  
Mayor – If only 3 players live & no execution occurs, your team wins. If you die at night, another player might die instead.  

OUTSIDERS
Butler – Each night, choose a player (not yourself): tomorrow, you may only vote if they are voting too.  
Drunk – You do not know you are the Drunk. You think you are a Townsfolk character, but you are not.  
Recluse – You might register as evil & as a Minion or Demon, even if dead.  
Saint – If you die by execution, your team loses.  

MINIONS
Poisoner – Each night, choose a player: they are poisoned tonight and tomorrow day.  
Spy – Each night, you see the Grimoire. You might register as good & as a Townsfolk or Outsider, even if dead.  
Scarlet Woman – If there are 5 or more players alive (Travellers don’t count) & the Demon dies, you become the Demon.  
Baron – There are extra Outsiders in play. [+2 Outsiders]  

DEMONS
Imp – Each night (except the first), choose a player: they die. If you kill yourself this way, a Minion becomes the Imp.  

FIRST NIGHT
Minion info
• If more than one Minion, they all make eye contact.  
• Message them who the demon is.

Demon info 
• Message them who their minions are.
• Message them three not-in-play good roles.

Night-order abilities
Poisoner – They choose a player: they are poisoned.  
Spy – Grimoire is shown to the Spy.
Washerwoman – Show the townsfolk role and the names of two players.
Librarian – If Outsiders in play, show their token; give two player names. Otherwise show “zero.”  
Investigator – Show the Minion token; give two player names.
Chef – Show the number of neighbouring evil pairs.  
Empath – Show the number (0–2) of evil neighbours.  
Fortune Teller – They choose two players; show yes/no if either is Demon or “decoy.”  
Butler – They choose to a player; mark as “Master.”  

OTHER NIGHTS
Night-order abilities 
Poisoner – Previous poisoned player recovers; they choose a new poisoned player.  
Monk – Previous protected player loses protection; they choose a new protected player.  
Spy – Grimoire is shown to the Spy.  
Scarlet Woman – If they just became the Demon, message "You are the demon".
Imp – Choose a player to die. If the Imp chose themself, a Minion becomes the new Imp and is shown the “You are” card.  
Ravenkeeper – If killed tonight, they choose a player and learns their character.  
Undertaker – If someone was executed today, they learn their character.  
Empath – Learn the number (0–2) of evil neighbours.  
Fortune Teller – They choose two players; learn yes/no as above.  
Butler – They choose a player; mark as “Master.”  

Dawn – announce any deaths.  